Docs 8756 error handler logs v4.3 cv (#1701)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/on-error-scope-concept.adoc

= On-Error Components
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

When an error occurs in a Mule app, an Error Handler component routes the error
to the first On-Error component (On Error Continue or On Error Propagate)
configuration that matches the Mule error, such as `HTTP:NOT_FOUND`,
`DB:CONNECTIVITY`, or `ANY` (the default for all Mule errors). If no error handling
is configured for the error, the app follows a
xref:error-handling.adoc#default_error_handling[default error handling] process.

.Error Handling Components in Studio
image::mruntime-error-handler.png[]

== On-Error Components Behavior

On-Error components differ in the way they affect their _owner_,

> that is, the Flow or Try scope where they are defined. Also, On-Error components can be defined inside a Global Error Handler, affecting the entire Mule application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that is, the Flow or Try scope where they are defined. To affect the entire Mule application, define On-Error components inside a Global Error Handler.
```

On-Error components list the errors that the runtime engine and operations
configured in the app can throw. You can select the errors you want to handle.

* Matching based on error type:
+
On-Error components can perform matching based on
xref:mule-error-concept.adoc#error_types[error types] you select. The list of
selectable error types depends on the module and connector operations within the
flow or scope to which the On-Error component applies. It also lists `EXPRESSION`
and `STREAM_MAXIMUM_SIZE_EXCEEDED` errors, which the runtime can throw.
+
image:mruntime-on-error-type-selection.png[]
+

> * Matching based on an condition (for more advanced use cases):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Matching based on a condition (for more advanced use cases):
```

For other reuse examples, see
xref:error-handling.adoc#global_error_handler[Referencing a Global Error Handler].

== Error Handling Example

The following error handlers are configured to produce
`{ "MyError": "value was expected to be null" }` for a `VALIDATION:NOT_NULL`
error, rather than `{ "messageANY" : "Some other error" }`. The string
`value was expected to be null` is the description of the

> `VALIDATION:NOT_NULL` error. The Is Null component can throw this error.

Reviewer: Should Is Null be hyphenated in this case (as `On-Error component` is)? Or is `On-Error` not literal, but `Is Null` is?

Is Null belongs to the Validation module.

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<error-handler >
  <on-error-continue
    enableNotifications="true"
    logException="true"
    type="VALIDATION:NOT_NULL">
    <ee:transform >
      <ee:message>
        <ee:set-payload><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
MyError : error.description as String
}]]></ee:set-payload>
      </ee:message>
    </ee:transform>
  </on-error-continue>
  <on-error-continue
    enableNotifications="true"
    logException="true"
    type="ANY">
    <ee:transform>
      <ee:message >
        <ee:set-payload ><![CDATA[%dw 2.0
output application/json
---
{
"messageANY" : "Some other error"
}
]]></ee:set-payload>
      </ee:message>
    </ee:transform>
  </on-error-continue>
</error-handler>
----

By default, On-Error components also log matching errors and enable error
notifications for occurrences of the errors. You can disable those settings

> through the XML.

Reviewer: "in the XML." ?

> You can also configure notification listeners in your Mule application, so they can react to the notification events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure notification listeners in your Mule application so that they can react to the notification events.
```

== On-Error Components Reference

[%header,cols="25a,20a,55a"]
|===
| Field | Value | Description

| Type (`type`)
| Mule error type
| A comma-separated list of Mule error types that defines the errors handled by this on-error strategy.

| When (`when`)
| DataWeave Expression

> | A matching expression that defines the condition to trigger the execution of this on-error strategy. The expression has to evaluate to a boolean value (`true` or `false`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| A matching expression that defines the condition to trigger the execution of this on-error strategy. The expression must evaluate to a boolean value (`true` or `false`).
```

|Enable Notifications (`enableNotifications`)
| Boolean

> | Specifies if this strategy fires a notification of type `ExceptionNotification` when an error occurs. The default value is `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Specifies whether this strategy fires a notification of type `ExceptionNotification` when an error occurs. The default value is `true`.
```
